USB Engineering Change Notice



                USB ENGINEERING CHANGE NOTICE

Title: Suspend Current Limit Changes
Applies to: Universal Serial Bus Specification, Revision 2.0

Summary of ECN:
This ECN raises the maximum suspend current to 2.5 mA for all devices except InterChip USB
(ICUSB) devices. ICUSBdevice suspend current limit remains at 150 µA.

For the purposes of establishing suspend current limits, there is no difference between a high-
power device and a low-power device, nor is there a difference between devices with
DEVICE_REMOTE_WAKEUP feature enabled and those without DEVICE_REMOTE_WAKEUP
feature enabled. All devices (except ICUSB) have a maximum suspend current limit of 2.5 mA.

NOTE: This ECN affects the core USB 2.0 specification. Previous ECNs and specifications
(except ICUSB) that make reference to the former 500 µA limit should be read according to this
ECN to permit the new 2.5 mA suspend current limit.

Reasons for ECN:
Simplification of hardware designs, reduced development effort and cost and time wasted
waiting for automatic suspend current waivers. Furthermore, the USB Battery Charging
Specification presumes that 2.5 mA suspend current is available to all devices.

Impact on existing peripherals and systems:
No impact on currently certified devices. Hosts with very tight suspend current budgets may be
affected by new bus-powered hubs drawing higher suspend current prior to configuration, or by
new low-power devices using the new limit.

Hardware Implications:
Devices that formerly required waivers for (2.5 mA > ICCSL > 500 µA) no longer require
waivers. Bus-powered hubs may require up to 12.5 mA prior to configuration, 2.5 mA for the hub
electronics and 2.5 mA for each port with an attached device.

Software Implications:
Host power-management software will need to be aware of the higher potential suspend current
when budgeting low-power states and when configuring bus-powered hubs.

Compliance Testing Implications:
All tests that verify 500 µA suspend current are replaced by 2.5 mA suspend current tests. A
new test for configured bus-powered hubs permits 12.5 mA suspend current.

Time-averaging schemes for determining suspend current compliance (Section 7.2.3) are
unchanged by this ECN.




USB ECN :2.5 mA Suspend Current for All Devices Except ICUSB                            1
USB Engineering Change Notice




Changes to USB-IF Full and Low Speed Compliance Test Procedure Section D.6, Step 2
        • Pass
                  1) Measured current is 2.5 mA or less
             OR
                  2)   Device is a configured bus-powered hub AND measured current is 12.5 mA or less
        • Fail
                  1)   Measured current exceeds 12.5 mA AND device is a configured bus-powered hub
             OR
                  2)   Measured current exceeds 2.5 mA

Specification Changes:

All changes (except repagination and indexing) occur in Chapter 7.

Chapter 7 changes:

Replace Section 7.2.3 Paragraph 1 with the following:
       All USB Devices (except bus‐powered hubs) may draw up to 2.5 mA during suspend. Configured
       bus‐powered hubs and configured bus‐powered compound devices may consume a maximum
       suspend current of 12.5 mA. This limit includes the 2.5 mA suspend current that must be
       available for each externally‐available downstream port on the hub. Unconfigured bus‐powered
       hubs and compound devices operate as a low‐power devices and must limit suspend current to
       2.5 mA. When computing suspend current, the current from VBUS through the bus pull‐up and
       pull‐down resistors must be included.

Replace Section 7.2.3 Paragraph 2 Sentence 4 with the following:

        The average current cannot exceed the average suspend current limit (ICCS or ICCSHUB, see
        Table 7-7) during any 1.0-second interval (TSUSAVG1).

Change reference to “ICCS(H/L)” from ICCS in Figure 7‐48 to “ICCS”

Change Table 7‐7 ICCSH and ICCSL as follows:
        Suspended Device                 ICCS       Section 7.2.3         2.5             mA
        (except Configured Bus‐
        Powered Hub)
        Suspended Configured Bus‐        ICCSHUB    Section 7.2.3         12.5            mA
        Powered Hub


Remove Table 7‐7 Note 15




USB ECN :2.5 mA Suspend Current for All Devices Except ICUSB                                   2
